add release notes for v8.1.2 (#19720)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-8.1.2.md

Author: Preview: https://pingcap-docsite-preview-git-patch-preview-oreoxmts-projects.vercel.app/tidb/dev/release-8.1.2

    - Fix the issue that when using the `CAST()` function to convert a string to a datetime with a time zone or invalid characters, the result is incorrect [#8754](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8754) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - Fix the issue that `LPAD()` and `RPAD()` functions return incorrect results in some cases [#9465](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9465) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue that querying new columns might return incorrect results under the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#9665](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9665) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the issue that logs might print out encrypted information [#57585](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57585) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
        - Fix the issue that snapshot backups based on AWS EBS might fail during the preparation phase, causing the backup to get stuck [#52049](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52049) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

>         - Fix the issue that BR repeatedly retries when it fails to connect to TiKV during the Fine Grained phase of snapshot backups [#57449](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57449) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        - (dup): release-7.5.4.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that the checkpoint path of backup and restore is incompatible with some external storage [#55265](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55265) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-8.5.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix potential security vulnerabilities by upgrading the `k8s.io/api` library version [#57790](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57790) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger)
        - (dup): release-8.5.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that PITR tasks might return the `Information schema is out of date` error when there are a large number of tables in the cluster but the actual data size is small [#57743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57743) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900)

    + TiCDC <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 2 notes-->

>         - Fix the issue that the Resolved Ts latency monitoring in the Puller module displays incorrect values [#11561](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11561) @[wlwilliamx](https://github.com/wlwilliamx)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the Resolved TS latency monitoring in the Puller module displays incorrect values [#11561](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11561) @[wlwilliamx](https://github.com/wlwilliamx)
```

---
title: TiDB 8.1.2 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.1.2.
---

# TiDB 8.1.2 Release Notes

Release date: December 23, 2024

TiDB version: 8.1.2

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.1/production-deployment-using-tiup)

> 
> ## Compatibility changes
> 
> - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/${repo-name}/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    - (dup): release-7.5.4.md > 改进提升> TiFlash - 改进 JOIN 算子的取消机制，使得 JOIN 算子内部能及时响应取消请求 [#9430](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9430) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - (dup): release-7.5.4.md > 改进提升> TiFlash - 优化 `LENGTH()` 和 `ASCII()` 函数执行效率 [#9344](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9344) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - 优化在存算分离架构下，读节点从 S3 下载文件异常时的重试策略 [#9695](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9695) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
        - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 改进提升> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 减少备份过程中无效日志的打印 [#55902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55902) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

    + TiCDC <!--tw@lilin90: 1 note-->

        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

>         - TiCDC 支持用户授予 SUPER 权限后查询异步执行的 DDL 任务状态，避免因在同一张表上重复执行 DDL 任务而导致执行错误 [#11521](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11521) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - TiCDC supports querying the status of asynchronously executed DDL tasks after granting `SUPER` privileges to avoid execution errors caused by duplicate DDL tasks on the same table. [#11521](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11521) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
```

>         - TiCDC supports querying the status of asynchronously executed DDL tasks after granting `SUPER` privileges to avoid execution errors caused by duplicate DDL tasks on the same table [#11521](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11521) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - TiCDC supports querying the status of asynchronously executed DDL tasks after being granted the `SUPER` privilege, preventing execution errors caused by repeatedly executing DDL tasks on the same table [#11521](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11521) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
```

    - (dup): release-7.5.4.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 information schema 缓存未命中导致 stale read 查询延迟上升的问题 [#53428](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53428) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - (dup): release-8.5.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 `UPDATE` 语句更新 `ENUM` 类型的值时更新错误的问题 [#56832](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56832) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
    - (dup): release-8.5.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复使用 `PLAN REPLAYER` 导入含有外键的表结构时可能报错的问题 [#56456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56456) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - (dup): release-8.5.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复关闭 `tidb_ttl_job_enable` 变量后 TTL 任务未被取消的问题 [#57404](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57404) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复当 `UPDATE` 或 `DELETE` 语句包含递归的 CTE 时，语句可能报错或不生效的问题 [#55666](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55666) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - (dup): release-7.5.4.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复 `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.STATISTICS` 表中 `SUB_PART` 值为空的问题 [#55812](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55812) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

>     - 修复查询 TiFlash 系统表中默认超时时间过短的问题 [#57816](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57816) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
>     - 修复 `default_collation_for_utf8mb4` 变量的值没有对 `SET NAMES` 语法生效的问题 [#56439](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56439) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
>     - 修复手动删除 `mysql`.`timer` 表中的定时器时，TTL 内部协程可能 panic 的问题 [#57112](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57112) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
>     - 修复 fast reorg 快速加索引可能导致 duplicate entry 错误的问题 [#49233](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49233) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
>     - 修复大表非分布式加索引导致索引时间戳为 0 的问题 [#57980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57980) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the default timeout for querying the TiFlash system table is too short [#57816](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57816) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the issue that the value of the `default_collation_for_utf8mb4` variable does not work for the `SET NAMES` statement [#56439](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56439) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that TTL internal concatenation might panic when you manually delete a timer in the `mysql.tidb_timer` table [#57112](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57112) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - 修复 fast reorg 快速加索引可能导致 duplicate entry 错误的问题 [#49233](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49233) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - 修复大表非分布式加索引导致索引时间戳为 0 的问题 [#57980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57980) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

>     - Fix the issue that TTL internal concatenation might panic when you manually delete a timer in the `mysql.tidb_timer` table [#57112](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57112) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TTL internal coroutine might panic when you manually delete a timer in the `mysql.tidb_timer` table [#57112](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57112) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

>     - Fix the issue that enabling `tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg` to add index acceleration might lead to the duplicate entry error [#49233](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49233) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that enabling acceleration of `ADD INDEX` and `CREATE INDEX` via `tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg` might lead to the `Duplicate entry` error [#49233](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49233) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

+ TiKV <!--tw@hfxsd: 5 notes-->

>     - 修复了配置 `resolved-ts.advance-ts-interval` 无法生效，导致在 TiKV 重启时，CDC 和 PiTR 的同步延迟大幅上升的问题 [#17107](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17107) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
>     - 修复了在触发资源管控时，部分任务等待时间的问题 [#17589](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17589) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
>     - 修复了 Region Merge 后，极小概率导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#17840](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17840) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
>     - 修复了在磁盘卡住时，TiKV 无法正常向 PD 上报心跳的问题 [#17939](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17939) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
>     - 修复了当 Raft 和 Rocksdb 部署在不同磁盘时，慢磁盘检测无法对 Rocksdb 所在磁盘生效的问题 [#17884](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17884) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the configuration `resolved-ts.advance-ts-interval` does not take effect, causing the synchronization latency of TiCDC and Point-in-time recovery (PITR) to increase dramatically when TiKV restarts [#17107](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17107) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
    - Fix the issue that some tasks wait too long when triggering resource control [#17589](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17589) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - Fix the issue that after Regions are merged, there is a very small probability that it will cause TiKV to panic. [#17840](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17840) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV can not report heartbeats to PD when the disk is stuck [#17939](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17939) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - Fix the issue that when Raft and Rocksdb are deployed on different disks, the slow disk detection does not work for the disk where Rocksdb is located [#17884](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17884) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
```

>     - Fix the issue that some tasks experience long delays when triggering resource control [#17589](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17589) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that some tasks experience high tail latency when triggering resource control [#17589](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17589) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
```

>     - Fix the issue that after Regions are merged, there is a very small probability that it will cause TiKV to panic [#17840](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17840) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that merging Regions might cause TiKV to panic in rare cases [#17840](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17840) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiKV can not report heartbeats to PD when the disk is stuck [#17939](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17939) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV cannot report heartbeats to PD when the disk is stuck [#17939](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17939) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
```

>     - Fix the issue that when Raft and Rocksdb are deployed on different disks, the slow disk detection does not work for the disk where Rocksdb is located [#17884](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17884) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when Raft and RocksDB are deployed on different disks, the slow disk detection does not work for the disk where RocksDB is located [#17884](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17884) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
```

    - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复一些 TiFlash 不支持的 JSON 函数被错误地下推到 TiFlash 的问题 [#9444](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9444) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复在特定情况下 `CAST AS DECIMAL` 函数的返回结果存在正负号错误的问题 [#9301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9301) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - (dup): release-7.5.4.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复在存算分离架构下，TiFlash 写节点的读快照可能没有被及时释放的问题 [#9298](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9298) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - (dup): release-7.1.6.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复 `SUBSTRING()` 函数不支持部分整数类型的 `pos` 和 `len` 参数导致查询报错的问题 [#9473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9473) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - (dup): release-7.5.4.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复使用 `CAST()` 函数将字符串转换为带时区或非法字符的日期时间时，结果错误的问题 [#8754](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8754) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - (dup): release-8.5.0.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复当 `LPAD()` 和 `RPAD()` 函数在某些情况下返回错误结果的问题 [#9465](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9465) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

>     - 修复在存算分离架构下，对新增的列进行查询可能返回错误结果的问题 [#9665](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9665) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that query new columns might return incorrect results under the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#9665](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9665) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
```
